tiflash: add the faq.md doc (#2215)
pingcap/docs: reference/tiflash/faq.md

---
title: TiFlash FAQ
summary: Learn the Frequently Asked Questions and the solutions about TiDB.
category: faq
---

# TiFlash FAQ

This document lists the Frequently Asked Questions and the solutions about TiDB.

## Does TiFlash support direct writes?

Currently, TiFlash does not support direct writes. You can only write to TiKV, and then replicate to TiFlash.

## How can I estimate the storage resources if I want to add TiFlash to an existing cluster?

> You can evaluate which tables might require acceleration. The size a single replica of these tables data is roughly equal to the storage resources required by two replicas of TiFlash. Note that you need to take into account the free space required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can evaluate which tables might require acceleration. The size of a single replica of these tables data is roughly equal to the storage resources required by two replicas of TiFlash. Note that you need to take into account the free space required.
```

> ## How do TiFlash data be highly available?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How can data in TiFlash be highly available?
```

> TiFlash restores data through TiKV. As long as the corresponding Regions in TiKV are available, TiFlash can perform data restore using these Regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiFlash restores data through TiKV. As long as the corresponding Regions in TiKV are available, TiFlash can restore data from these Regions.
```

## How many replicas does TiFlash recommend to set up?

> If you need highly available TiFlash service (rather than highly available data), it is recommended to set up two replicas for TiFlash. If the TiKV replicas are allowed to provide service when TiFlash loses nodes, you can set up a single replica.

Reviewer: @ilovesoup PTAL whether this edit is technically correct, thanks!
```suggestion
If you need highly available TiFlash service (rather than highly available data), it is recommended to set up two replicas for TiFlash. If the TiKV replicas are allowed to resume the TiFlash service when TiFlash loses nodes, you can set up a single TiFlash replica.
```

## Should I use TiSpark or TiDB server for a query?

> It is recommended to use TiDB server if you query a single table with filtering and aggregation, because TiDB server shows better performance on the columnar storage. It is recommended to use TiSpark if you query table joins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use TiDB server if you query a single table mainly using filtering and aggregation, because the TiDB server has better performance on the columnar storage. It is recommended to use TiSpark if you query a table mainly using joins.
```

> It is recommended to use TiDB server if you query single table collection or you use the filtering query, because TiDB server shows better performance on the columnar storage. It is recommended to use TiSpark if you query table joins.

Author: @ilovesoup Please confirm whether "It is recommended to use TiDB server if you query single table collection or you use the filtering query, because TiDB server shows better performance on the columnar storage. It is recommended to use TiSpark if you query table joins." means the same thing with "如果查询以单表集合和过滤为主，那么 TiDB server 比 TiSpark 在列存上拥有更好的性能；如果查询以表连接为主，那么推荐使用 TiSpark。" Thanks a lot.

Reviewer 2: It is recommended to use TiDB server if you query single table with filtering and aggregation, because TiDB server shows better performance on the columnar storage. It is recommended to use TiSpark if you query table joins.

Reviewer 2: Here I made a mistake in Chinese version: "以单表集合和过滤" -> "以单表聚合和过滤"

Author: @ilovesoup The file is updated according to your comment. Thanks!
